== iRuby notebooks

This notebooks are powered by {Ruby kernel}[https://github.com/SciRuby/iruby/] for {IPython/Jupyter}[https://jupyter.org/].
I placed them here to show some GnuplotRB's capabilities and ways of using it together with iRuby.

=== Installation
To use GnuplotRB gem with iRuby you need to install them both.

* iRuby installation is covered in its {README}[https://github.com/SciRuby/iruby/blob/master/README.md].
  It also covers installation of iPython and other dependecies.
* GnuplotRB gem installation covered in {README}[https://github.com/dilcom/gnuplotrb#installation] too.

=== List of notebooks

==== Embedding plots into iRuby
Using GnuplotRB inside iRuby notebooks is covered in:

* {basic usage notebook}[http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/dilcom/gnuplotrb/blob/master/notebooks/basic_usage.ipynb].

==== 2D and 3D plots
GnuplotRB is capable to plot vast range of plots from histograms to 3D heatmaps. Gem's repository contains examples of several plot types:

* {heatmaps}[http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/dilcom/gnuplotrb/blob/master/notebooks/heatmaps.ipynb]
* {vector field}[http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/dilcom/gnuplotrb/blob/master/notebooks/vector_field.ipynb] (Thanks, {Alexej}[https://github.com/agisga])
* {math equations}[http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/dilcom/gnuplotrb/blob/master/notebooks/math_plots.ipynb]
* {3D visualizations}[http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/dilcom/gnuplotrb/blob/master/notebooks/3d_plot.ipynb]
* {histogram}[http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/dilcom/gnuplotrb/blob/master/notebooks/histogram.ipynb]

==== Possible datasources
GnuplotRB may take data in Ruby container or in a file. Supported containers for now are Arrays, Daru::Vector and Daru::DataFrame.
When data given in file, GnuplotRB pass filename to Gnuplot *without* reading the file into memory.

Examples of using different datasources:

* {data given in file or Ruby Array}[http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/dilcom/gnuplotrb/blob/master/notebooks/points_from_different_sources.ipynb]
* {data given in Daru containers}[http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/dilcom/gnuplotrb/blob/master/notebooks/plotting_from_daru.ipynb]
* {data given in Daru containers (with timeseries)}[http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/dilcom/gnuplotrb/blob/master/notebooks/time_series_from_daru.ipynb]
* {updating plots with new data}[http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/dilcom/gnuplotrb/blob/master/notebooks/updating_data.ipynb]

==== Multiplot
You can not only plot several datasets in single coordinate system but place several coordinate systems on a canvas.

* {Multiplot example notebook}[http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/dilcom/gnuplotrb/blob/master/notebooks/multiplot_layout.ipynb].

==== Animation
It's possible to use several plots (Plot, Splot or Multiplot objects) to create gif animation.

* {Animation example notebook}[http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/dilcom/gnuplotrb/blob/master/notebooks/animated_plots.ipynb].

==== Fitting data with formula
GnuplotRB also may be used to fit some data with given math formula.

* {Fitting data}[http://nbviewer.ipython.org/github/dilcom/gnuplotrb/blob/master/notebooks/fitting_data.ipynb]
